In this clip we're going to talk about the
proper way to remove and replace an electronic
cooling fan. In this step we're going to talk
about the proper service procedure for removing
our mounting bolts from the electronic cooling
fan to the radiator. What I have here is a
ten millimeter socket, and my three eighths
drive ratchet, aim right down here. Right
there is a mounting bolt. Most electronic
cooling fans have four of them. They're lefty
loosey, righty tighty, you want to be careful
when removing and installing them because
they do screw into the plastic of the radiator.
We're going to continue unscrewing it with
our ratchet, the upper ones are always a piece
of cake to get at once you have the necessary
components out of the way. However, the lower
bolts may be a little more difficult, just
due to the room constraints inherent in a
front wheel drive vehicle. Once you got a
finger tight, go ahead and remove the mounting
bolt and place it in your magnetic tray for
later re-installation. Now down here is one
of the lower bolts you can go ahead and begin
removing it. It may be necessary to get access
to this bolt from the underneath, on most
vehicles if you have the right tool set up
you can get at it from the top. We're going
to continue unscrewing the bolt until it's
finger tight, and then continue unscrewing
it by hand and remove it. You're going to
want to put the finishing touches on it by
hand, just to make sure that you don't drop
the bolt. There are a lot of cracks and crevices
on the vehicle that a bolt can hide in, and
you don't want to have to run to the hardware
store or walk to get a replacement bolt. Alright,
and there's the lower one. You're going to
have two more on the other side of your electronic
cooling fan. You're going to want to go ahead
and repeat that procedure for the bolts on
the other side. That is the proper way to
remove the electronic cooling fan mounting
bolts.